# emergers-women-safety
TEAM MEMBERS:
P.Keerthana-keerthanaponnusaamy@gmail.com
T.Nivetha-nivethait29@gmail.com
M.Kothaianandhe-kothaianandhi@gmail.com

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

              This app provides  timely help to safeguard women under attack .
              We planned to implement this app both in smartwatches and smartphones .
              Once the user installs this app , a unique identification number will be generated by the server. 
              This server is enabled to maintain the database of this app users. 
              The server will automatically update the locations of this app users using GPS.
              The victim who are in threat, must have smartwatch  in which the smartsafe app is installed.
              The smartwatch unit already has a cellular GSM chip within it to transfer an alert message.  
              A press of panic button sends this alert message to the server. 
              The server traces the location of the victim. 
              At this instance, the server will filter the location of this app users within the specified limit of 2 kms               and the alert message will be sent. The nearby 10mts of the victim will not receive any alert messages                because by an assumption the culprits may be within this nearby limit(10 mts).
              In case if the  network of this app users fails, the server will send SMS to intimate the alert message. 

STATUS:
              Completed till emergency message sending to existing contacts.

